# sales_forescasting_MAT430
Senior Capstone Project using time series analysis for sales forecasting Walmart stores

Using the dataset downloaded from kaggle.com's Walmart sales forecasting competition and the pandas package in Python, I have performed data cleaning replacing missing values, merging columns, data splitting of the date, and categorical variable conversions. Using the seaborn package in Python, create data visualization's for average weekly sales by store, month, years, day, and holidays. Evaluate the relationship between predictor variables with weekly sales by creating a correlation matrix heatmap. From the correlation matrix create a multiple linear regression model to predict weekly sales. Using R, run ANOVA table to determine the goodness of fit of the model. Perform backwards stepwise regression, to attempt to create the best fit linear regression model to predict weekly sales. Final model was not suitable to our goal. 

Attempt a random forest regression model to predict weekly sales using same predictor variables from the best fit linear regression model for comparison. Using sklearn package in Python, impute the missing values in our dataset as well as train_test_split to split our data into training and testing sets with a 70% and 30% split respectively. Run the random forest regressor with 200 trees (for the sake of memory and time) on both training and testing sets. Evaluate the metrics of both random forest models using sklearn. Out of bag score, mean squared error, and r squared were determined for each model. To comfirm importance of variables chosen in model, a feature importance was run on the variables and graphed. The same feature importance was run for the linear regression model and graphed to further demonstrate how the random forest is a better model with higher accuracy at predicting weekly sales.

Using the final random forest model, ran a prediction for the dates following the dataset, and visualized in a line graph as well as exported into a csv file.
